Known issues with ArkOS, devices and/or various software packages:

1. Putting the unit to sleep while in the following emulators, games or applications is known to not function correctly:
    - **RG351P/M/V Only - Daphne** - No controls on resume from sleep.  No solution on a possible resolve this as this time.  If you're technically inclined, you're welcome to review the modified source code [here](https://github.com/christianhaitian/hypseus) and provide a solution to the issue.
    - **RG351P/M/V Only - Drastic (Nintendo DS Emulator)** - No controls on resume from sleep.  This is a known issue with the emulator.  Unfortunately, this can't be addressed until the emulator's code is made available.  At the time of this writing, (12/29/2020), the emulator is closed source.
    - **RG351P/M/V Only - Pico-8** -  If you put the unit to sleep twice while this emulator is in use, there will be no controls on resume.  You can hit start+select to exit and restart the emulator.  Lexaloffle plans to address this concern with a future update to their pico-8 raspberry pi files.
    - **RG351P/M/V Only - File Manager (Dingux Commander)** - No controls on resume from sleep.  No solution on a possible resolve for this at this time.  If you're technically inclined, you're welcome to review the modified source code [here](https://github.com/christianhaitian/rs97-commander-sdl2) and provide a solution to the issue.
    - **RG351P/M/V Only - lzdoom** - No controls on resume from sleep.  No solution on a possible resolve for this at this time.  If you're technically inclined, you're welcome to review the modified source code [here](https://github.com/christianhaitian/lzdoom) and provide a solution to the issue.
    - **RG351P/M/V Only - TI99** - No controls on resume from sleep.  You should be able to hit select+start to exit the emulator.  No solution on a possible resolve for this at this time.  If you're technically inclined, you're welcome to review the modified source code [here](https://github.com/christianhaitian/ti99sim) and provide a solution to the issue.
    - **RG351P/M/V Only - Mupen64 Standalone** - In game controls still work but not emulator controls (ex. load state, save state, and quit).  You can use the system safe power down (R3+Power) to power down the unit.  No solution on a possible resolve for this at this time.
    - **RG351P/M/V Only - Retrorun/Retrorun32** - No controls on resume from sleep.  No solution on a possible resolve for this at this time.  If you're technically inclined, you're welcome to review the modified source code [here](https://github.com/christianhaitian/retrorun-go2) and provide a solution to the issue.

2. With the RG351P, when you plug in wifi, keyboard, or any other usb device and attempt to charge the unit at the same time, wifi stops working and the unit may freeze.
    - This is a known hardware issue with the RG351P that software can not fix.  The issue seems to be related to the RG351P missing some noise filtering components on the usb-c ports.  At this time, the best solution is to not use wifi and charge the device at the same time.  You can only do one or the other.  The issue is also not consistent from unit to unit.  Some have reported success with plugging in their charger before booting the device, then plugging in their usb device afterwards.  some don't have the issue at all.  It seems very hit or miss.

3. The battery life indicator is weird.  When the battery life is low and I plugin my charger, the battery indicator almost immediately shows 100 percent.  
   - This is due missing or inaccurate power management integrated circuit (pmic).  Many rk3326 devices (such as the rg351p/m/v and rk2020) suffer this issue.  Because of this, software is used to best judge available power based on voltage from the battery.  Thus when the battery is being charged, the software will see that voltage going into the battery and it assumes it's 100 percent.

4. I'm on Windows 10 version 1703 or newer and I can't see the EASYROMS folder when I plug my micro sd card into my computer.
   - If you don't see a drive letter named EASYROMS when you plug the SD card into a card reader, it's most likely that Windows did not automatically assign a drive letter to that partition on your SD card. This can be resolved by going to disk management (type disk management in the search bar in Windows 10 and select the first control panel app that comes up at the top as the best match), then going to the SD card with the EASYROMS partition label, then assign a drive letter to the EASYROMS partition by right clicking on the EASYROMS partition and selecting Assign Drive Letter or Change Driver letter and Path, then follow the directions from there. Once completed, the drive should show up under My Computer. You typically only need to ever do this once on the Windows machine.

5. While updating ArkOS, my wifi seems to stop working.
   - This is a common issue that is happening with rtl8xxxu chipset based wifi adapters.  These wifi adapters are known to have bad stability and performance with Linux using the built-in kernel drivers for this chipset.  There is a workaround for the issue available [here](https://github.com/christianhaitian/arkos/issues/124#issuecomment-751475195).  If this doesn't work and your unit is a RG351P, you can try the test version of ArkOS 1.5 [here](https://mega.nz/file/PcoBlAST#cN9oVCplJRu0nzqwtowP1-aJkJpEBnYRhKFBhni28M4) then install the workaround for the issue linked in the previous sentence and see if that fixes the issue.  This test version includes additional wifi drivers and can be updated online like the regular version.

6. The keyboard for setting up wifi has limited characters.  This is an issue for wifi passwords with special characters.  Can additional characters be added?
   - Unfortunately, that program's code is closed source and I can't change that, however, when I manage to support wifi directly in emulationstation, this should be feasible.  As of 6/04/2021 with Retroarch version 1.9.4 or newer, you can configure wifi in retroarch which supports more special characters.